

These are the cities that recently started declining requests in 2014

 * Denver justice center and Denver county jail  in _Denver_ . 314 of all 437 declined by Denver Justice Center and 30 out of all 36 declined by Denver County Jail since 2007 happened in 2014.
 * Turner Guiford Knight (TGK) Jail in _Miami_ . 126 of all 164 declined by TGK Jail happened in 2014. Dade County Correctional in _Miami_ is a weird one. 495 of the total 642 since 2007 were in 2014. But that doesn't change the fact that this also happened: 6,566 booked into detention.
    
                    det_ facility       |            lift_reason            | count
              --------------------------+-----------------------------------+-------
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Booked into Detention             |  6566
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Lifted                            |  1567
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Detainer Declined by LEA          |   642
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Case Closed                       |   151
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Transferred                       |    30
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Early Release                     |    29
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Alien Not Subject to Deportation  |    19
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Prosecutorial Discretion          |    17
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Lifted - Lack of Space            |     7
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | United States Citizen Interviewed |     3
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Died                              |     2
               DADE COUNTY CORRECTIONAL | Lifted - Lack of Funds            |     1
      
   
* In _New Orleans_ the Orleans Parish Sheriff declined 14 requests in 2013 and then again 8 in 2014. That being said, they also booked 102 in total since 2007 only and this could easily have been a money issue.
    
* New York is big
       
      * Brooklyn Central Booking in _New York_ started declining detainer requests in 2012 with 54 baby steps that burst out into 245 cases of defiance the next year. The following year it fell again to 197 but that's not too much. These numbers are significant because the total count of people booked into detention since 2007 is 701.
      * Queens Central Booking in _New York_ has a similar story. The total of 725 declined becomes significant when we see it pitted against the 1178 booked into detention in total since 2007.
        
           year |       lift_reason        | count
          ------+--------------------------+-------
           2012 | Detainer Declined by LEA |    83
           2013 | Detainer Declined by LEA |   345
           2014 | Detainer Declined by LEA |   291
           2015 | Detainer Declined by LEA |     6
              
        * And the same with Manhattan Central Booking. 270 declined whereas only 654 booked into detention. They too started in 2012 and had their highest number of 121 in 2013.
        
        * Rikers Island is funny. They've only declined around 8 percent of the cases but then again they had their numbers declined peak in 2014 with 492. In 2013 is 158.

            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Booked into Detention             | 11157
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Lifted                            |  2088
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Case Closed                       |  1139
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Transferred                       |  1010
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Detainer Declined by LEA          |   902
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Prosecutorial Discretion          |   147
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Alien Not Subject to Deportation  |    79
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Lifted - Lack of Space            |    29
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Early Release                     |    20
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Died                              |     8
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | United States Citizen Interviewed |     5
            RIKERS ISLAND, QUEENS, NY | Lifted - Lack of Funds            |     3

      * An anomaly, Sac County Jail in Iowa seems to have taken to heart the 2014 ruling. They started declining nearly all their detainers starting 2014.
             det_facility   |       lift_reason        | count
           -----------------+--------------------------+-------
            SAC COUNTY JAIL | Booked into Detention    |    79
            SAC COUNTY JAIL | Detainer Declined by LEA |    32
            SAC COUNTY JAIL | Lifted                   |    21
            SAC COUNTY JAIL | Case Closed              |     8
            SAC COUNTY JAIL | Transferred              |     4
            SAC COUNTY JAIL | Early Release            |     1

      * San Diego County Jail in _San Diego_
              year |       lift_reason        | count
             ------+--------------------------+-------
              2009 | Detainer Declined by LEA |     2
              2010 | Detainer Declined by LEA |     3
              2011 | Detainer Declined by LEA |     2
              2012 | Detainer Declined by LEA |     5
              2013 | Detainer Declined by LEA |    15
              2014 | Detainer Declined by LEA |   240
              2015 | Detainer Declined by LEA |    42
      * San Diego Central Jail in _San Diego_

              year |       lift_reason        | count
             ------+--------------------------+-------
              2013 | Detainer Declined by LEA |     5
              2014 | Detainer Declined by LEA |    75

      * Santa Clara Co Main Jail and Santa Clara County Jail in _San Jose_ all started in 2011 but Santa Clara's numbers peaked in 430. In 2013 it was 197. This is in comparison to the 1358 people they booked into detention since 2007. Santa Clara County Jail seems to have always had a strong stance against detainers. They've declined 674 over the years and 269 of them were in 2013, 199 in 2012, 164 in 2014.

              det_facility       |           lift_reason            | count
        -------------------------+----------------------------------+-------
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Detainer Declined by LEA         |   674
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Booked into Detention            |   557
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Case Closed                      |   318
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Lifted                           |    91
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Transferred                      |    14
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Early Release                    |    11
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Alien Not Subject to Deportation |     1
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Prosecutorial Discretion         |     1
         SANTA CLARA COUNTY JAIL | Died                             |     1



      *
